96 c. rurrr cassatus

took up his own winter-quartem in a bamlet of the Veragri called
Octodurus. This is admitted on all hands to he at or near
Martigny‚ but there is a difference of opinion as to whether the
river by which it was divided into two parts was the thne itself
or the Druse, which flows into it. One part of this hamlet was
allowed to the natives, the other was occupied by the Roman
cohorts. After several days had passed quietly, it was suddenly
discovered that the Gallie half had been evacuated in the night
and that the mountains which surrounded the small plain in which
the hamlet lay were occupied by great masses of the Seduni aod
Veragri. The camp was not properly provisioned, nor were its
defences yet completed. A hurried council of war was held, which
was followed hya fierce attack on the camp. After six hours’
fighting a centurion Baculus, who had already distinguished him-

self in the battle with the Nervii, and C. Volusenus, a tribune of η

the soldiers, advised Galba to try a saily as a last reeort. Their
advice was followed and with such complete success that more
than a third part of the enemy were slain But after this unoom·
fortable experience Galba would not tempt fortune again, but
brought his forces, first into the country of the Nantuates, where
he picked up the two cohorts, and then into the fn'endly territory
of the Allobroges

ln the spring of 56 took place the famous conference at Luca,
whereat it was arranged that Caesar was to be secured in his
command for a second period of five years.

With Ariovistus expelled, the Belgae overcome, and the Alpine
tribes conquered‚ Caesar imagined that there was peace in Gaul,
when a sudden disntrbance arose in a new quarter.

Young Publius Crassus with the seventh legion had wintered
furthest to the west in the country of the Andes (Anjou). Finding
a dearth of corn in this district he had sent out his officers into the
neighbouring states to collect ic

The most influential states in this neighbourhood were the Veneti
in the Morbihan and Loire Inferieure, who were the great naval
power of the period. These set the example of retaining the

emissaries of Crassus with a view to the recovery of their own ¹

hostages. Τὴο example was speedily followed by the rest, and
a defensive league was formed among the maritime states When

Caesar was informed of this movement hythe despatches from

 

