DE BELLO GALLICO. ΗΒ. IV 125

himself against all contingencies. By using the materiale of twelve
of the ships that had been most damaged, and sending to the
Continent for tools, he succeeded iu making the rest serviceable.
Meantiine he daily carried into his camp the crops of the people ‘
with whom he was at peace. This was too much for the Britons.
They laid an ambush for the seventh legion while it was employed
in reaping‚ and it was only mscued from their war-cbariots hythe
timely arrival of Caesar with some cohorts on the scene. Then
followed heavy rains which quenched the ardour of both sides fot

a time After this the Britons attached the camp, but were routed
and some loss inflicted ou them by about thirty hormen, whom
Commius, king of the Atrebates, had brought over with him. On
the same day ambassadors again cameto ask for peace. Caesar

doubled the number of hostages that he had demanded before,
but did not wait to collect them, as the autumnal equinox was at
hand.

Availing himself of a favourable wind he put out to sea shortly
after midnight, and reached the Continent without accident, except
that two of the ships were unable to malie the same barbours as
the rest, and were carried in to shore some way further down the
coast. The 300 men who were landed from these vessels were
attacked by the Morini in hope of plunder‚ but rescued after four
hours’ fighting by the arrival of Roman cavalry. This led to
reprisals on Caesar's part, who sent Labienus against the Morini
in command of the two legions that be had just brought back from
Britain. The dryness of the marshes prevented the Morini from
escaping as well as they had done the year before, and most of
thetn fell into the hands of Labienus. The Menapii fared better,
as they retired before Sabinus and Cotta into the depths of their
foresta. But the reason was now over, and the troops went into
winter-quartem among the Belgae. Two British states only kept
their promise to send hostages. For these exploits Caesar was
honoured with a thanksgiving of twenty days’ duration.

Out of all the controversy that there has been about Caesar's
invasion of Britain one conclusion seems to emerge clear, uamer,
that Boulogne‚ or at least the mouth of the Liane, was the port
from which he sailed. 'This theory survives as being the fittest,
that is, the one which best suits the facts. lt is also better
supported by authority than any other, being tbe view held by

 

